[MUSIC].
So, we'll continue to talk a little
bit more about datasheets for
hardware components,
specifically for integrated circuits,
because they are extra complicated.
So right here we got, this is a rectifier,
a Schottky Rectifier.
This is a piece of a data sheet.
So if you Google Schottky Rectifier and if
you type in the part number for that and
type data sheet and Google that,
you'll come up with a data sheet,
several versions of it, actually.
And you can click on it and
there are lots of different
things inside this data sheet.
One thing that you always
find inside a data sheet
is the physical dimensions of the part.
Because they always want to tell you how
do you build it into a bigger system.
So, how's it going to
connect to everything.
You always want to know that.
This is actually a diagram
showing the physical dimensions.
It shows all detail, the size of it and
this is just one cross-section.
A lot of time these data sheets will show
different views from different angles.
This shows you with the pins.
It shows you every dimension
that you need to know about.
Actually, right there on that,
you can't see all the numbers there.
They label them with letters but
there is a table next to it
that shows what the sizes are.
This is a typical thing you
will find inside a data sheet.
Now, you find tons of
information in a data sheet.
And part of it, certainly when I started
I could not read most of a data sheet.
All right,
you can read a little bit of a data sheet,
so I don't expect people to be
able to read the whole data sheet.
And, in fact, most of the data sheet,
you don't practically need.
But, some key things you
should be able to figure out.
For instance, the size, you typically
wanna be able to read the size cuz
there are certain things
that you need to know.
Like, for instance for this class,
say you want to use a bread board, right?
That's commonly what we want to use for
prototyping is a bread board for
connecting things.
For that,
you need to know the size of the pins and
its spacing between the pins because
the holes in a bread board is spaced at
one tenth of an inch between each hole.
So, when you get a component, you wanna
know the pins are spaced some multiple of
that, so
you can fit them into the bread board.
Things like this.
And, if they're not, you need to know
that before you order the part, so
that you can do something about that.
So, the physical side,
the physical dimensions,
you always find that in the data sheet,
and you'll need to be able to read that.
Now other information,
just a sample of some of the other
information in the data sheet.
You find electrical parameters and
thermal parameters,
what temperature can this thing run at.
Now usually, thermal parameters
are not something I generally need,
because I'm not trying to use these
components in some extreme environment,
but they give some kind of boundaries.
It can't be hotter than this,
colder than this.
That's generally not useful to me,
but maybe you're using some application
where you need that information.
Electrical parameters are important
to tell you things like
what's the maximum and minimum voltage,
maximum current that can go through that.
And that is actually important because
you wanna make sure, for instance,
that components are voltage-compatible.
So for instance,
say you get a microcontroller and
it's outputting at 5 volts, but
you get a component that only needs,
only accepts up to 3.3 volts,
which is by the way, a common mismatch.
So if that happens,
you need to know that so
you can either buy the component that
matches your microcontroller, 5 volts, or
you can do some type of stepping, voltage
stepping, put a transformer in between,
something like that to change
the voltages and make them match.
So, these parameters,
some of these parameters you need,
some of them you don't need that much.
Now, integrated circuits
are another type of component.
They're a sort of simple components and
more complicated components, and
the data sheets vary in complexity.
So if you look at a simple
component like a resistor,
and we'll talk more about those later,
but they're very simple.
You don't need a data sheet for
a resistor or a capacitor.
You need minimal Information
about those components.
But more complicated components,
the more complicated they are,
the denser the datasheet is.
Integrated circuits are basically
the extreme of that.
So, integrated circuits,
and we've talked about these
microcontrollers are integrated circuits.
Integrated circuits are chips.
Now, they're typically made
of say silicon, silicon base.
But they can be made of other materials,
primarily silicon right now.
And we're not gonna talk about
the fabrication technology except to say
that they're basically made on these
big wafers so you can see down there.
You can see these disks,
these flat disks, these circular disks.
So those disks are slices of silicon, and
you chop them up into little rectangles
and each rectangle is a chip.
As you take that chip and
you package it as you can see over there
on the right, you see the packaging.
You hide it inside this bigger package,
and
the package is used to protect the chip,
also to cool the chip as it's running.
Also to wire its pins.
You can see the pins on the bottom.
So the pins on a chip are too tiny to
contact, so you need them to be bigger,
so the package does that for you.
So the package provides pins that you can
actually make contact with and big enough
for you to solder into or connect into
a bread board or something like that.
So anyway, these integrated circuits,
they have data sheets as well,
chip is protected by the package.
These integrated circuits have data
sheets as well, and these data sheets for
integrated circuits can be very
complicated because what these
integrated circuits do can widely vary.
So an integrated circuit for instance
can be an entire processor, right?
And then the data sheet for
that can be heck, over a thousand pages.
[LAUGH] All right.
I've definitely seen that.
Or a simpler process is
like a microcontroller.
Maybe you get 150 page data sheet, right?
And it's got tons of information
on how this device behaves.
Now, most of the time for this class we
won't have to go to that level of detail.
We won't have to look at
the 150 page data sheet, and
look at the details of what's going on.
In fact, with the components that
we're using, we're using Arduinos and
Raspberry Pis.
Those boards, they come with libraries
that hide the details for us, okay.
So we will not have to be exploring
a lot of the details inside
those components, thankfully.
But, you could.
So if you really want to make the most
use of these components, these chips,
you can look in the data sheet and
see lots of features.
So the trade off with what we're
doing with our Arduinos and
our Raspberry Pis is that they give
us these library functions, and
we'll talk about these later, that
simplify things for us as programmers.
But they hide details,
they also hide features.
So there are a lot of things that
you can't do with a processor,
with a microcontroller,
just because the library doesn't
allow you access to that feature.
Now, if you want access to
that feature you can go and
look at the data sheet and do it, but
you won't be able to rely on the nice,
easy library functions that
you really want to rely on.
And inside this class, we probably won't
be going into that level of detail about
these microcontrollers at all.
We'll just use their library functions and
not have to worry about these extreme
details of the behavior of
these microcontrollers.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]